---
title: "What is Dapp Browser? Connect to Web3 on Mobile"
slug: what-is-dapp-browser
date: 2022-11-30
published_at: 2022-11-30T14:58:26.000Z
feature_image: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2022/11/what-is-Dapp-browser.png
authors:
  - name: Vladimir Shamanov
    slug: vladimir
    avatar: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2026/01/c08b6248-334a-4749-8808-a28f8ddf58ce-1.png
tags:
  - Zerion Wallet
  - Dapps
excerpt: The great thing about the mobile wallet app is that you can use it to connect to any decentralized application on the go.  Using Web3 on your mobile is easy if your wallet has a dapp browser.  In…
---

<p>The great thing about the mobile wallet app is that you can use it to connect to any decentralized application on the go.</p><p>Using Web3 on your mobile is easy if your wallet has a dapp browser.</p><p>In this post, we'll explore what a dapp browser is, why you need it in Web3, and how to use it. Finally, we'll list some dapps to try out on mobile.</p><h2 id="what-are-decentralized-applications-dapps"><strong>What are Decentralized Applications (DApps)?</strong></h2><p>First, let's make sure we're on the same page about what decentralized applications are.</p><p>A decentralized application is a software that uses smart contracts and crypto wallets. Instead of a database with all user data, a dapp relies on the information in the wallet to identify the user. The user's wallet can then interact with various smart contracts via a traditional web interface.</p><p>Despite the name, a dapp doesn't have to be fully decentralized. It can use blockchain technology to identify and authorize the user but also rely on various backend databases. Also typically the front end is hosted on regular servers like AWS or Azure.</p><p>The easiest way to spot a dapp is to see the 'connect wallet' button instead of signup/login. With a browser extension wallet, it's straightforward to connect your wallet to a dapp.</p><p>With a mobile wallet, the easiest way to connect to a decentralized application is via a dapp browser.</p><h2 id="what-is-a-dapp-browser-in-a-crypto-wallet"><strong>What is a dapp browser in a crypto wallet?</strong></h2><p>A dapp browser is a built-in browser in the mobile wallet app.</p><p>Think of it like a Chrome or Safari browser in your wallet: it can show any URL right in the same app. You've seen similar web browsers in Facebook, Telegram, and other messengers when you click a link and it opens in the same app.</p><h3 id="why-is-a-dapp-browser-useful"><strong>Why is a dapp browser useful?</strong></h3><p>Due to strict (and rather arbitrary) app store guidelines, most dapps and protocols don't have fully-fledged native applications on Android and iOS devices.</p><p>Even dapps that have native apps typically have limited functionality. For example, OpenSea has an iOS mobile app, which looks and fees similar to its website... except you can't buy or sell NFTs in the iOS app!</p><p>That's where a wallet's dapp browser comes handy.</p><h2 id="why-a-dapp-browser-is-great-to-thing-to-have"><strong>Why a dapp browser is great to thing to have</strong></h2><p>With a dapp browser, you can access the decentralized internet on the go — it’s a must-have for any active Web3 citizen.</p><h3 id="easily-connect-to-any-decentralized-application-on-mobile"><strong><em>Easily connect to any decentralized application on mobile</em></strong></h3><p>Instead of switching between your wallet and the regular mobile browser like Safari, you can access dapps from one app. Once the wallet is connected, the dapp browser remembers it.</p><h3 id="switch-between-different-crypto-wallets"><strong><em>Switch between different crypto wallets</em></strong></h3><p>In smart dapp browsers like in Zerion Wallet, you can easily switch between several addresses in a few taps. The browser remembers all other wallets you connected and shows a small avatar to help you identify which wallet you're using now.</p><h3 id="switch-between-blockchain-networks"><strong><em>Switch between blockchain networks</em></strong></h3><p>In Zerion Wallet, you can easily switch between mainnet Ethereum and 10 other <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/layer-1-and-layer-2/">Layer-1 and Layer-2 networks</a> (for example, Optimism and Arbitrum). There is no need to reconnect the wallet each time you switch the network.</p><h3 id="bookmark-decentralized-applications-in-your-wallet-app"><strong><em>Bookmark decentralized applications in your wallet app</em></strong></h3><p>You can add bookmarks to your favorite decentralized applications. This not only helps to save time on searching the right website but also minimizes the chance of ending up on a spoofed version of the dapp that might try to steal your digital assets.</p><p>Now that you know what dapp browsers are and why they are helpful, let's see how to use it in Zerion Wallet.</p><h2 id="how-to-connect-zerion-wallet-to-dapps-on-a-mobile-device"><strong>How to connect Zerion Wallet to dApps on a mobile device</strong></h2><p>This video shows you how easy it is to connect to a dapp on mobile with Zerion Wallet’s dapp browser:</p><p>Here are the steps to connect your Zerion Wallet's dapp browser to any dapp:</p><ol><li>Open the <a href="https://link.zerion.io/s6QhtIA5bvb">Zerion Wallet app</a> — if it's your first session, you can easily <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/how-to-import-your-metamask-into-zerion-wallet/">import an existing wallet</a> or create wallets in app</li><li>Tap on the browser icon at the bottom of the screen</li><li>Enter the dapp name or the URL in the navigation bar at the top</li><li>Once you're on the dapp's website, tap connect</li><li>Approve the wallet connection and sign the pop up message</li><li>That's it! Your wallet is connected</li><li>By clicking on the three dots, you can switch the network if you need to</li></ol><p>To truly appreciate the power and flexibility of a dapp browser, you should try using different dapps on your mobile device.</p><h2 id="top-decentralized-applications-to-try-on-mobile"><strong>Top decentralized applications to try on mobile</strong></h2><h3 id="collect-music-nfts-with-soundxyz"><strong>Collect Music NFTs with </strong><a href="http://Sound.xyz" rel="noopener noreferrer"><strong>Sound.xyz</strong></a></h3><p>Music NFT drops happen at specific times and you just can’t be around a laptop all the time. With a dapp browser, you can connect to <a href="http://Sound.xyz" rel="noopener noreferrer">Sound.xyz</a> and never miss a drop!</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Music NFTs 🤝 Zerion Wallet <br><br>Coming soon in our dApp Browser<br><br>We&#39;re now the proud owners of <a href="https://twitter.com/hi_mija?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@hi_mija</a> #100 &#39;I Get Excited&#39; <a href="https://t.co/04v7e49SjF">https://t.co/04v7e49SjF</a><br><br>s/o <a href="https://twitter.com/soundxyz_?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@soundxyz_</a> <a href="https://t.co/ctXBExKUYH">pic.twitter.com/ctXBExKUYH</a></p>&mdash; Zerion (@zerion_io) <a href="https://twitter.com/zerion_io/status/1592144469876527112?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 14, 2022</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</figure><h3 id="trade-any-nfts-with-opensea"><strong>Trade any NFTs with OpenSea</strong></h3><p>By connecting to <a href="https://opensea.io/">OpenSea</a> in the dapp browser, you get the full mobile version, where you can place bids, accept offers, and sign any transactions in the same wallet app.</p><h3 id="save-usdc-and-win-rewards-with-pooltogether"><strong>Save USDC and win rewards with PoolTogether</strong></h3><p>Deposit into USDC into <a href="https://pooltogether.com/">PoolTogether</a> vaults to earn interest and connect your mobile wallet via the dapp browser to check if you won the weekly prizes.</p><h3 id="trade-perps-with-gmx"><strong>Trade perps with GMX</strong></h3><p>Never miss a market setup by connecting your mobile wallet to <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/what-is-gmx/">GMX, the decentralized derivatives exchange</a>, via the dapp browser. The best thing is that you can trade self-custodially, without keeping digital assets in trading accounts on centralized exchanges.</p><h3 id="vote-in-daos-with-snapshot"><strong>Vote in DAOs with Snapshot</strong></h3><p>Import private keys to the address with your governance tokens and connect your wallet to <a href="https://snapshot.org/#/">Snapshot</a> to vote for any proposal on the go.</p><h3 id="use-decentralized-social-media-with-lens"><strong>Use decentralized social media with Lens</strong></h3><p>Connect to <a href="https://lenster.xyz/">Lenster</a> via the dapp browser and post and comment on the go.</p><h3 id="learn-web3-with-rabbithole"><strong>Learn Web3 with Rabbithole</strong></h3><p>Connect your wallet to <a href="https://rabbithole.gg/">Rabbithole</a> via the dapp browser and finish tasks to get NFT credentials and rewards.</p><h2 id="try-web3-on-mobile-with-zerion"><strong>Try Web3 on mobile with Zerion</strong></h2><p>In this post, we explored what a dapp browser is and why it’s useful for exploring Web3. We then reviewed the steps to connect to a decentralized application with Zerion on the go. And then we even listed some dapps to try on mobile.</p><p>To fully experience why you need a wallet with a dapp browser, you should try it out. Get a <a href="https://link.zerion.io/s6QhtIA5bvb">Zerion Wallet</a>, import your existing wallet, and take part in <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/what-is-web3/">Web3</a> on the go.</p><p><strong><a href="https://link.zerion.io/s6QhtIA5bvb">Download Zerion Wallet</a></strong></p>
