---
title: The Best Wallet For Web3 Citizens
slug: the-next-step-to-building-the-best-wallet
date: 2022-10-13
published_at: 2022-10-13T10:38:00.000Z
feature_image: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2023/01/Funds-1.png
authors:
  - name: Alexander Guy
    slug: alexander-guy
    avatar: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/proxy/2-Lv2OeXKr2eiyj0bQrFQRZQ.jpeg
tags:
  - zerion
  - Community updates
excerpt: "We’re thrilled to announce our Series B fundraise as we continue building the best wallet for Web3 citizens.  Led by our friends at Wintermute [https://www.wintermute.com/], this investment round…"
---

<p>We’re thrilled to announce our Series B fundraise as we continue building the best wallet for Web3 citizens.<br><br>Led by our friends at <a href="https://www.wintermute.com/">Wintermute</a>, this investment round enables us to accelerate our product roadmap, double down on UX, and continue strengthening our position and relationships within the <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/what-is-web3/">Web3</a> community.</p><p>Our mission from the very beginning has been to empower YOU — Web3 builders, traders, and enthusiasts — with user-friendly and intelligent products that help you take control of your identities, data &amp; assets 🚀</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">It&#39;s finally here 🤩<br>Introducing Zerion Wallet 🚀 🔥<br><br>The best web3 wallet for your phone is Smart &amp; Social!<br><br>🔮 DeFi and NFTs at your fingertips <br>🤯 10 chains, thousands of tokens <br>⚡ Sign transactions in seconds <br>🦄 Access any dapp<br><br>Be first to claim your Zerion DNA 🧬🤫 <a href="https://t.co/ak5z7MOhll">pic.twitter.com/ak5z7MOhll</a></p>&mdash; Zerion (@zerion) <a href="https://twitter.com/zerion/status/1529827958482948096?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 26, 2022</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
</figure><p>We’ve crossed a few major milestones as we pursue this goal:</p><ul><li>🤑 More than 60,000 <a href="https://zerion.io/">Zerion wallets</a> holding +$100 million combined</li><li>🏎️ Crossed over $1.5 billion in trading volume processed through Zerion</li><li>🌍 Attracted +400,000 Monthly Active Wallets from 150 countries</li></ul><p>Following this raise we are more excited than ever to continue building the best wallet possible, offering amazing UX while levering best-in-class data analytics.</p><h2 id="web3-citizens-deserve-a-better-wallet">Web3 Citizens Deserve a Better Wallet</h2><p>Despite their importance to the whole ecosystem, existing Web3 wallets are surprisingly basic and lack portfolio tracking or native bridge and swap functionality. Most wallets make it painful to operate in an increasingly multichain ecosystem and offer little to help keep users' funds safe.</p><blockquote>“Wallets are core to the Web3 experience but the tools have not evolved for the challenges and complexity of the web3 space and modern use cases,”</blockquote><p>said Evgeny Yurtaev, CEO and co-founder at Zerion.</p><blockquote>“As the number of decentralized applications expands, it becomes more difficult for users to follow their footprint across chains, NFT collections, and DeFi protocols. We believe that in an increasingly disparate Web3 space, wallets become a dynamic place to track and manage it all.”</blockquote><p>This vision attracted the Wintermute team to join our mission.</p><blockquote>"In Zerion, we see the next generation of web3 applications. The next frontier of blockchain is the user layer, and Zerion’s cross-chain compatible, mobile-focused wallet enables users to participate in the ecosystem easily. Zerion is being built by a strong team with experience operating in DeFi, which is why we are confident in their vision and ability to deliver on integrations and functions behind the user layer, all while abstracting away the, often overwhelming, blockchain complexity.” said Evgeny Gaevoy, founder and CEO of Wintermute.</blockquote><h2 id="thanks-to-our-world-class-partners">Thanks to Our World Class Partners</h2><p>In addition to Wintermute Ventures, we're humbled by additional participation from Placeholder, Mosaic, Polymorphic Capital, Coinbase Ventures, and Alchemy Ventures. 1inch Network’s Sergej Kunz, Anton Bukov, and Orest Gavryliak also participated alongside Yunt Capital &amp; Grégoire Le Jeune.</p><p>This is an evolution for Zerion and we’re running full speed ahead to build the best wallet for the most dedicated Web3 citizens.</p><p>There’s a lot more coming very soon. Watch this space! 👀</p>
