---
title: How to Get a Job in Web3 Without Any Blockchain Skills
slug: how-to-get-a-job-in-web3-without-any-blockchain-skills
date: 2022-10-03
published_at: 2022-10-03T17:49:37.000Z
feature_image: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2022/10/Get-a-job-in-web3-1.png
authors:
  - name: Andrey Balyasnikov
    slug: andrey
    avatar: //www.gravatar.com/avatar/857cac6eb16dd3293d0a26a1e626a228?s=250&d=mm&r=x
tags:
  - views
  - Web3
excerpt: "Web3 is hot. As the crypto market more than halved this year, VCs have already invested over $15 billion in Web3 [__GHOST_URL__/what-is-web3/]  startups, according to Crunchbase…"
---

<p>Web3 is hot. As the crypto market more than halved this year, VCs have already invested over $15 billion in <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/what-is-web3/">Web3</a> startups, according to <a href="https://news.crunchbase.com/web3-startups-investors/">Crunchbase</a>.</p><p>Despite the overall financial climate, amazing opportunities can still be found in small Web3 projects, where everyone can take part and succeed regardless of location or previous industry knowledge.</p><p>Getting a job Web3 can seem like a tough task, especially if you don’t have a background in the space. The teams, hiring processes and even industry jargon can seem designed to make it challenging to understand. </p><p>But Web3 is actively looking to expand and add new talent to the space. With this in mind, I would like to share how to get involved and what to expect – even if you don’t have any blockchain skills.</p><h2 id="about-me">About me</h2><p>My journey in crypto began in 2017. I joined the newly-founded <a href="http://zerion.io/">Zerion</a> to build up the product. I've led and hired over 20 people through the years to create the smartest web3 wallet to store, trade, and track tokens and NFTs.</p><p>While Zerion grew, gaining over 200,000 monthly active users and processing <a href="https://dune.com/projects/zerion">$1.5 billion in transactions</a>, the team was mostly brand new in web3. We were building in real-time as the paradigm around us developed.</p><p>Building this space requires a lot of agility and belief in things that do not yet exist. It's a constant struggle, but people love it.</p><h2 id="why-web3">Why Web3?</h2><p>There are countless reasons why someone might want to work in Web3, but here are some of the significant motivators that I see my team excited about:</p><p><strong>🔍 You’ll be early.</strong></p><p>Joining a market valued at ~$1 trillion dollars may seem like the train has left the station, but in fact - we’re just getting started! Imagine, Apple’s market cap – $2.5 trillion. It’s only one company, but the entire crypto is just ~$1 trillion.</p><p>Most of the core technologies used in Web3 are still in their infancy, and have not yet released a token to become decentralized.</p><p>By working from the inside, you will have a deep understanding of token mechanics, their valuation, and gain exposure to industry-talk that can help you with your own investment strategy.</p><p><strong>🔮 You'll shape the future. </strong></p><p>It's a startup cliche, but in Web3, it's true. Most of the things you'll do will be brand new. You will set precedents for others to follow. And it's not just about new blockchains or smart contracts. UI/UX, backend, frontend, marketing, business development, and community building are being reinvented right now, with new practices and unique tools.  </p><p><strong>🧠 Work with the best and the brightest.</strong> </p><p>Web3 is different from other fields. It combines some of the most complex technological concepts with an open-minded, international approach.</p><p>Web3 is an incredible blend of computer science, cryptography, finance, software engineering, memes, and more. This space attracts intelligent, curious people from all over the globe with diverse backgrounds.</p><h2 id="in-web3-risks-are-high-as-well-as-rewards">In Web3 risks are high as well as rewards</h2><p>Remember, Web3 is still very new, and only a few companies in the field can be considered 'established'.</p><p>Most companies are still startups, with few signs of traction or PMF. Some teams are not even companies — they're DAOs, decentralized autonomous organizations.</p><p>Like in any startup environment, you'll likely wear many hats. The team will be small, and hiring could be slow. Yet being a one-person band could be an excellent opportunity to learn new things.</p><p>The level of enthusiasm in this space is much higher than in any other tech or industry. Despite all challenges, Web3 attracts lots of top talent from FAANG companies. These people aren't looking for just money. They are passionate about decentralization and the difference it could make in how our world works. You will build something new that nobody has done before.</p><p>Isn't it the best reward that you can dream of? :)</p><p>As for 💰, usually, you will become a shareholder from your first day at a company, and the path to "IPO" is much shorter than in regular startups as many are considering launching their own token</p><h2 id="what-skills-do-you-need-for-a-web3-job">What skills do you need for a Web3 job?</h2><p>Like any other job, Web3 requires hard and soft skills. There are no shortcuts here. However, you're not expected to have direct blockchain experience.</p><p>Here's what you need instead.  </p><p>You should be curious, dedicated, and open-minded. It's a new field with lots of things that are hard to understand. You need to be driven to learn this, going beyond the immediate task. DYOR, aka 'doing your own research' is crucial.</p><p><strong>You should dive into Web3 as a user.</strong></p><p>It's not just about reading whitepapers and watching Vitalik's speeches. Having first-hand experience using DeFi, dabbling in NFTs, and contributing to DAOs is a considerable advantage. The great thing is that all these things are on-chain: show your address instead of talking. However, being a crypto user isn't enough to build a great company. That's why I usually look at the combination of core competencies and deep interest in Web3. </p><p><strong>You should be tech-savvy.</strong></p><p>Even for non-technical people, it's essential to be curious about how this Web3 stuff works and to have the ability and mindset to learn about new developments constantly. Regardless of your role, you'll face many new terms and concepts. Understanding how different elements fit together is vital for creating products that abstract away the underlying complexity.</p><p>If this sounds like you, don't wait for a better time.</p><h2 id="a-bear-market-is-the-best-time">A bear market is the best time</h2><p>Crypto works in cycles. A well-known saying is that bear markets are the best time to build. I want to encourage you to join now and not wait for a bull run. The projects that are built now are meant to last.</p><p>Frothy crypto markets attract more investments and even more people chasing a quick buck. VCs are happy to write checks and new retail investors scoop new token sales. Lots of startups raise money and compete to hire people.</p><p>In a bear market, however, only the best companies and projects survive.</p><p>These teams build for the long term. They raise funds from top VCs even during a downturn. They are the ones who are most likely to build sustainable business models and grow into future Googles and Apples of Web3.</p><h2 id="you-can-start-small">You can start small</h2><p>While other hyped-up fields like AI or VR require full-time focus, in Web3, you can get the ball rolling even before you get a full-time job:</p><p>💡 Create a Dune Analytics dashboard.</p><p>💡 Join a few Discord servers and help DAOs with marketing, community building, design, or anything else they need.</p><p>💡 Staring your NFT project or selling your first NFT.</p><p>💡 Fork an existing dapp and deploy your own with minor tweaks.</p><p>💡 Build an alternative frontend for an existing protocol.</p><p>Simple projects that could be done in your spare time would both give you the taste of working in Web3 and help solidify your portfolio.</p><p>As a participating user, you can also create rapport as an active web3 citizen by investing in tokens and NFTs, using DeFi protocols, reading and voting for DAO proposals, etc. </p><p>Demonstrating your reputation in the field can be done by using tools like <a href="https://degenscore.com/">DegenScore</a>. It will be a vast Plus for you as a potential job candidate.</p><h2 id="ape-into-web3">Ape into Web3</h2><p>Web3 is a new and innovative space with lots of risks, but it provides unique opportunities to work on something that nobody has done before, to be a pioneer in shaping the world. This exciting journey will reward you, no doubt.</p><p>If you feel it resonates with you, here are some ways to explore web3 job opportunities:</p><ul><li><a href="https://t.me/dailyapehr">https://t.me/dailyapehr</a></li><li><a href="https://t.me/lobsters_hr">https://t.me/lobsters_hr</a></li><li><a href="https://cryptocurrencyjobs.co/">https://cryptocurrencyjobs.co/</a></li><li><a href="https://web3.career/">https://web3.career/</a> </li></ul>
