---
title: "Zerion XP Retrodrop: +10 Million Wallets Are Now Eligible"
slug: zerion-xp-retrodrop-10-million-wallets-are-now-eligible
date: 2024-12-16
published_at: 2024-12-16T16:53:51.000Z
feature_image: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2024/12/XP_drop_blog.png
authors:
  - name: Vladimir Shamanov
    slug: vladimir
    avatar: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2026/01/c08b6248-334a-4749-8808-a28f8ddf58ce-1.png
excerpt: "With the launch of Zerion Rewards, millions of addresses became eligible for retroactive XP drop based on their prior activity onchain and on Zerion. If you’re new to Zerion, read on to find out more…"
---

<p>With the launch of Zerion Rewards, millions of addresses became eligible for retroactive XP drop based on their prior activity onchain and on Zerion. If you’re new to Zerion, read on to find out more about XP, eligibility, and how to claim.&nbsp;</p><h2 id="what-is-zerion-xp">What is Zerion XP?&nbsp;</h2><p>A core part of <a href="https://zerion.io/blog/rewards/" rel="noreferrer"><u>Zerion Rewards</u></a>, XP are off-chain points for using Zerion Wallet.&nbsp;</p><p>As you get more XP, you level up. In turn, new Levels unlock rewards.&nbsp;</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Earn XP for exploring onchain with Zerion Rewards!<br><br>Starting today, 10M wallets are now eligible for XP 🎉<br><br>Import your wallet to Zerion and claim your XP!<a href="https://t.co/de2Q5hveH4">https://t.co/de2Q5hveH4</a> <a href="https://t.co/MI5S2YWYFO">pic.twitter.com/MI5S2YWYFO</a></p>— Zerion (@zerion) <a href="https://twitter.com/zerion/status/1858903345525637323?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">November 19, 2024</a></blockquote>
<script async="" src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script></figure><p>XP is awarded for every transaction in the Zerion Wallet. Everything counts: swapping, bridging, minting, spending gas on other transactions.&nbsp;</p><p>The best part is that on <a href="https://zero.network" rel="noreferrer"><u>ZERO Network</u></a>, the new L2, transactions are free in Zerion Wallet. You can do transactions without paying for gas <em>and </em>still get XP.&nbsp;</p><p>Over 10 million wallets are now eligible for Zerion Rewards! And even if you’re not a <a href="https://link.zerion.io/GE6alCsuAPb" rel="noreferrer"><u>Zerion Wallet</u></a> user now, you’re likely already eligible for a retroactive XP drop if you've spent time onchain over the last few years.</p><p>Let’s look at the eligibility criteria in more detail 👇</p><h2 id="eligible-zerion-users">Eligible: Zerion Users</h2><p>You qualify for XP if you’ve swapped or bridged in the Zerion web app at any point before 15 November 2024 (snapshot date).&nbsp;</p><p>The exact amount depends on many factors, and you get extra XP for:&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Transactions volumes through Zerion</li><li>Days onchain&nbsp;</li><li>Address age&nbsp;</li></ul><p>Furthermore, existing Zerion Wallet users with Premium, DNAs, and other Zerion NFTs, get even more XP.&nbsp;</p><p>But even if you haven’t used Zerion, you can still be eligible for retroactive XP.&nbsp;</p><h2 id="eligible-onchain-explorers">Eligible: Onchain Explorers&nbsp;</h2><p>If your address has been active in the past and it’s not on any blacklists, then it should qualify for a retroactive XP.&nbsp;</p><p>First, we wanted to look at transaction data when determining XP retro drop eligibility:</p><ul><li> 10+ trades on DEXs&nbsp;like 1inch, Uniswap and 0x</li><li>Less than 100 transactions per day (i.e. not a bot)</li></ul><p>We then looked at whether the address interacted with smart contracts using major wallets, including:&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Metamask</li><li>Rainbow</li><li>Rabby </li></ul><p>Addresses with bot, hacker, suspicious, and other flags in Dune are ineligible for XP.&nbsp;</p><p>If you are a genuine onchain citizen, you likely qualify for XP.&nbsp;</p><h2 id="how-to-claim-zerion-xp">How to Claim Zerion XP&nbsp;</h2><p>To claim Zerion XP for an address, you must import it into Zerion Wallet.&nbsp;</p><p>If you use Ledger, you can also connect it to Zerion Wallet without importing an address. You will still be able to claim XP.&nbsp;</p><p>For other addresses, here is what you need to do:&nbsp;</p><ol><li>Get the recovery phrase or private key for the address in your existing wallet&nbsp;</li><li>Install <a href="https://link.zerion.io/GE6alCsuAPb" rel="noreferrer"><u>Zerion Wallet</u></a> as a browser extension or mobile app&nbsp;</li><li>Select ‘Import Existing Wallet’</li><li>Enter your recovery phrase or private key to import the address&nbsp;</li><li>Claim the XP!&nbsp;</li></ol><p>You can import any number of addresses. If they’re eligible, you’ll get XP for each of them.&nbsp;</p><h2 id="what%E2%80%99s-next">What’s next</h2><p>This retroactive XP drop is just the beginning.&nbsp;We'll be adding more drops in the future and adding more ways for users to get involed!</p><p>With ‘gasback’, you’ll get XP for each transaction in Zerion. You can get even more XP for quests, especially the daily featured quests. And you can also invite others and earn 10% of their XP.&nbsp;</p><p>The race to the highest level is on! </p>
