---
title: "Unichain Mainnet is Live! Here's How to Get Started With Zerion"
slug: unichain-mainnet-explore-with-zerion
date: 2025-02-12
published_at: 2025-02-12T18:31:14.000Z
feature_image: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2025/02/Unichain-mainnet.png
authors:
  - name: Vladimir Shamanov
    slug: vladimir
    avatar: https://zerion.io/blog/content/images/2026/01/c08b6248-334a-4749-8808-a28f8ddf58ce-1.png
tags:
  - "Layer-2 Scaling Solutions"
  - Zerion API
  - Uniswap
excerpt: "Unichain, a DeFi-native Ethereum L2 solution, is live today. From day one, both Zerion Wallet and Zerion API have fully supported the new network. In this post, we’ll explore what Unichain is and how…"
---

<p>Unichain, a DeFi-native Ethereum L2 solution, is live today. From day one, both Zerion Wallet and Zerion API have fully supported the new network. In this post, we’ll explore what Unichain is and how to get started.&nbsp;</p><h3 id="what-is-unichain"><strong>What is Unichain?</strong></h3><p>Unichain is designed to unify fragmented blockchain ecosystems, providing traders, developers, and liquidity providers with a seamless and efficient experience. Built on the OP Stack as part of the Superchain, Unichain aims to be the home for liquidity across chains.</p><figure class="kg-card kg-embed-card"><blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Unichain mainnet is live ✨<br><br>✸ Fast with low fees<br>✸ Built for cross-chain liquidity<br>✸ Prioritizes decentralization from day one<br><br>You can now deploy DeFi apps, launch tokens, swap, provide liquidity, and more <a href="https://t.co/MqJQwum4Bf">pic.twitter.com/MqJQwum4Bf</a></p>— Unichain (@unichain) <a href="https://twitter.com/unichain/status/1889313993296064770?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">February 11, 2025</a></blockquote>
<script async="" src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script></figure><h3 id="key-features-of-unichain"><strong>Key Features of Unichain</strong></h3><ul><li><strong>Fast and Cheap Transactions</strong>: At launch, Unichain offers 1-second block times, with plans to reduce this to 250 milliseconds in the future. Transactions cost about 95% less than on mainnet Ethereum.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Progressive Decentralization</strong>: Launched with permissionless fault proofs from day 1 and the first L2 to launch as a stage 1 roll-up. While it uses a single sequencer for efficiency, Unichain introduces additional decentralization through the upcoming Unichain Validation Network.&nbsp;</li><li><strong>Cross-Chain Liquidity</strong>: Unichain is built to support seamless transactions across multiple chains, simplifying access to liquidity regardless of the user's chosen network. As part of the Superchain, Unichain will support native interoperability.&nbsp;</li></ul><h3 id="how-to-get-started-with-unichain-in-zerion-wallet"><strong>How to Get Started with Unichain in Zerion Wallet </strong></h3><p>You can already explore Unichain with <a href="https://link.zerion.io/q8QqHdv8TQb" rel="noreferrer">Zerion Wallet</a>: </p><ul><li>Access ERC20 tokens</li><li>Track balances &amp; positions</li><li>View transaction history</li><li>Connect to dApps on the network</li><li>Coming soon: native bridge and swap right in Zerion </li></ul><p><strong>To get started: </strong></p><ol><li>Install <a href="https://link.zerion.io/q8QqHdv8TQb" rel="noreferrer">Zerion Wallet</a>&nbsp;</li><li><a href="https://zerion.io/blog/how-to-import-your-metamask-into-zerion-wallet/" rel="noreferrer">Import your existing address</a> or create and fund a new address&nbsp;</li><li><a href="https://www.unichain.org/bridge" rel="noreferrer">Bridge to Unichain using the official bridge</a> — your assets will automatically show up on Unichain in Zerion; there is no need to add RPC settings.&nbsp;</li></ol><p>Over the next few weeks, you will also find quests in Zerion Rewards, helping you explore the Unichain ecosystem while earning XP. </p><h2 id="building-on-unichain">Building on Unichain</h2><p>Unichain offers a developer-friendly environment with extensive documentation and tools to facilitate building dapps of all kinds. In fact, Unichain is one of the few L2s to launch with 80+ apps and collaborators.&nbsp;</p><p><a href="https://www.zerion.io/api/unichain" rel="noreferrer">Zerion API is one of Unichain’s key infrastructure partners</a>, launching with full support on day 1. By the way, Zerion API for is what powers portfolio data Uniswap's own wallet. </p><p>If you build on Unichain, with Zerion API, you can:&nbsp;</p><ul><li>Easily add portfolio tracking for any address on Unichain&nbsp;</li><li>Fetch tokens, NFTs, and DeFi positions on Unichain&nbsp;</li><li>Fetch easy-to-read transaction history</li></ul><p>Besides Unichain, Zerion API supports dozens of major EVM networks — you can use the same endpoints to access them all!&nbsp;</p><h2 id="what%E2%80%99s-next">What’s next&nbsp;</h2><p>Unichain’s mainnet launch introduces a new fast, low-cost L2 built for improving cross-chain liquidity. As we've seen, you can already get started on Unichain with Zerion, both the wallet and the API.</p><p>To see it in action, explore Unichain with <a href="https://link.zerion.io/q8QqHdv8TQb" rel="noreferrer">Zerion Wallet</a>—track assets, interact with dApps, build and play. </p>
